---
title: v1
---

## v1.2.2

### Improvements

- Fixes an issue that caused a serious slow down on application init

### Bugfixes

- Client api generation from local was not working because of missing
  assemblies, fixed
- Mvc hosts with client api was not starting, fixed

## v1.2.1

### Features

- `apigen` now can create client api from bin directory

### Improvements

- `apigen` now shows compile errors in console output

### Bugfixes

- `apigen` was not deleting temp folder when an error occurs, fixed

## v1.2.0

### Features

- "Gazel CLI" is introduced as a global tool (`g`). Install it through `choco
  install gazel-cli`.
- `CommandLineApplication` is introduced as a new application type which
  supports verb and option parsing via
  [CommandLineParser](https://github.com/commandlineparser/commandline/wiki)
- `IComponentModelBuilderConfiguration` is introduced to enable modifying
  default registration of components.
  - `LifestyleContributor` is implemented to enable changing registered
    lifestyle of a component. (e.g. `cmb.SetLifeStyle(of: typeof(SomeClass),
    to: LifestyleType.Singleton)`)
  - `OrderedInterceptorContributor` is implemented to allow ordered
    interceptors from "Castle.Windsor".
- `ColoredLevelConsoleAppender` is added to allow beautiful log messages to
  console.

### Breaking Changes

- `apigen.exe` is removed from "Gazel.Client" package and moved to "Gazel CLI"
  as a sub command (e.g. `g apigen http://api.project.com -n
  MyCompany.MyProject`)
- `apigen` options are redesigned completely
- `singleton` parameter of `TestBase.CreateMock` is renamed to `@override`
- `DateTimeRange.DateTimeFormat` field is renamed to `DATE_TIME_FORMAT` and
  made private, you can use `Constants.DATE_TIME_FORMAT` instead
- Default color style is `ColorStyle.Gray` for MVC Public Theme

### Improvements

- Missing XML documentation of Gazel.System classes are completed
- A lot of refactoring was made to improve code readibility
- Nuget specs are revised to conform to best practices
- `ColorStyle.Gray` added to MVC Public Theme
- Added FileSystem feature to MVC applications

### Bugfixes

- SQLite.Interop assemblies will be added with CopyIfNewer set to TRUE
- 3rd party library XML documentation files are included in nuget packages
- MVC DecimalPointOption.Always was not working correctly, fixed

## v1.1.9

### Bugfixes

- SessionInfo columns are excluded from CustomerUserType naming convention like
  audit columns.

### Improvements

- In order to store session information like AuditInfo on entities, SessionInfo
  is added. IWithSession and IAuditableWithSession interfaces are added to
  enforce user to use as properties.

## v1.1.7

### Improvements

- Npgsql is added to Gazel.Configuration in order to support PostgreSQL.

## v1.1.6

### Improvements

- Instead of fetching fonts from google, Google Fonts in gazel.css are embeded
  into Gazel.Configuration.Mvc
- Submodules of Acelang are embeded into Gazel.Configuration.Mvc

## v1.1.4

### Bugfixes

- The `maxResultLengthInBytes` specified using the `ServiceConfigurer` in
  Global.asax for `GateWay Application` is not set on the
  `JavaScriptSerializer.MaxJsonLength` property. It gives "The length of the
  string exceeds the value set on the maxJsonLength property" error message,
  fixed.

## v1.1.3

### Library Upgrades

| Package  | Old Version | New Version |
| -------- | ----------- | ----------- |
| Routine  | 0.8.1       | 0.8.2       |

## v1.1.2

### Bugfixes

- The `maxResultLengthInBytes` specified using the `ServiceConfigurer` in
  Global.asax is not set on the `JavaScriptSerializer.MaxJsonLength` property.
  It gives "The length of the string exceeds the value set on the maxJsonLength
  property" error message, fixed.

## v1.1.1

### Bugfixes

- License keys with `MvcApplication` were not working under
  `ServiceApplication`, fixed.

### Library Upgrades

| Package  | Old Version | New Version |
| -------- | ----------- | ----------- |
| Routine  | 0.8.0       | 0.8.1       |

## v1.1.0

### Features

- Nuget - The Nuget packages were arranged.
  - Created `Gazel.Configuration.Mvc` NuGet package to support MVC web
    applications on .NET Framework.

### Breaking Changes

- MVC web application support has been removed from `Gazel.Configuration`. It
  has been moved to the new `Gazel.Configuration.Mvc` NuGet package.
- Auto UI support has been removed from `Gazel.Configuration`. It has been
  moved to the new `Gazel.Configuration.Mvc` NuGet package.
- `Microsoft.AspNet.Mvc` NuGet package has been removed from both `Gazel` and
  `Gazel.Configuration`.
- `Newtonsoft.Json` library has been removed from `Gazel.Configuration` NuGet
  package.

### Improvements

- Added json serializer support for `Middleware Application`

### Library Upgrades

| Package  | Old Version | New Version |
| -------- | ----------- | ----------- |
| Routine  | 0.7.8.37795 | 0.8.0       |

## v1.0.2

### Library Upgrades

| Package                             | Old Version | New Version |
| ----------------------------------- | ----------- | ----------- |
| Castle.Facilities.AspNet.SystemWeb  | 5.0.0       | 5.0.1       |
| Castle.LoggingFacility              | 5.0.0       | 5.0.1       |
| Castle.WcfIntegrationFacility       | 5.0.0       | 5.0.1       |
| Castle.Windsor                      | 5.0.0       | 5.0.1       |
| Moq                                 | 4.12.0      | 4.13.1      |
| RabbitMQ.Client                     | 5.1.0       | 5.1.2       |

## v1.0.1

### Bugfixes

- When context session is overriding, if an exception occurs in action, context
  session is not restored to previous value, fixed.
- When an MVC application is started, action filters on UI modules are not
  automatically registered in kernel, fixed.
- When a HTTP post request with content type
  `application/x-www-form-urlencoded`, REST api is throwing
  `System.StackOverflowException`, fixed.

### Improvements

- After NHibernate 5.1.2 upgrade, if an entity is mapped with explicit
  implementation of an interface, when accessing the `Id` property via an
  interface, it returns `Id` property of a proxy entity. That is expected
  behavior. But, NHibernate `DefaultProxyFactory`(obsoleted) was not doing
  this. It can still be enabled using `useDefaultProxyFactory` parameter of
  `DatabaseConfigurer` from Global.asax.
- `System.Threading.Tasks.Extensions` library has been added in
  `Gazel.Configuration` NuGet package.

### Library Upgrades

| Package                          | Old Version  | New Version |
| -------------------------------- | ------------ | ----------- |
| Castle.Core                      | 4.3.1        | 4.4.0       |
| Castle.Core-log4net              | 4.3.1        | 4.4.0       |
| Moq                              | 4.2.1402.211 | 4.12.0      |
| Newtonsoft.json                  | 12.0.1       | 12.0.2      |
| NUnit                            | 3.11.0       | 3.12.0      |
| System.Data.SQLite.Core 1.0.110  | 1.0.110      | 1.0.111     |

## v1.0.0-rc3

### Bugfixes

- `RemoteSyslogAppender` doesn't properly handle newline in log message, fixed.

## v1.0.0-rc2

### Bugfixes

- Fixed issue of not overriding what has been injected to already created
  objects with new mock objects when singleton is true create mock.

## v1.0.0-rc1

### Features

- RabbitMQ now supports sending messages directly without implementing
  `IMessageManager`. It can be enabled using `messageDeliveryStrategy`
  parameter of `MessageQueueConfigurer.RabbitMq` from Global.asax.
- Added json file localizer and custom localizer support. They can be
  configured using `LocalizationFeature` from Global.asax.
- Sql reserved keywords can now be specified by configuring from Global.asax.
- Documentation - Added PlantUML plugin inside Gazel documentation.
- Documentation - Security and web service features have been published.

### Breaking Changes

- .Net Framework 4.0 support has been removed.
- .Net Framework 4.5 is changed to 4.5.2.
- `Castle.FactorySupportFacility` library has been removed from
  `Gazel.Configuration` nuget package.
- For primary key, naming convention following `EntityName+Id` has been
  removed. It can now be specified using `IMappingConfiguration`
  implementation.

### Improvements

- `Castle.Facilities.AspNet.SystemWeb 5.0.0`, `Remotion.Linq 2.1.2`,
  `Remotion.Linq.EagerFetching 2.1.0` and `Antlr3.Runtime 3.5.1` libraries have
  been added in `Gazel.Configuration` nuget package.
- NuGet package have been changed to provide support for .Net Framework 4.5.2
  version.
- Documentation - Architecture feature has been updated. (see:
  [https://gazel.io/architecture](https://gazel.io/architecture))

### Library Upgrades

| Package                         | Old Version | New Version |
| ------------------------------- | ----------- | ----------- |
| Castle.Core                     | 3.2.0       | 4.3.1       |
| Castle.Core-log4net             | 3.2.0       | 4.3.1       |
| Castle.LoggingFacility          | 3.2.0       | 5.0.0       |
| Castle.WcfIntegrationFacility   | 3.2.0       | 5.0.0       |
| Castle.Windsor                  | 3.2.1       | 5.0.0       |
| Common.Logging                  | 2.1.2       | 3.4.1       |
| log4net                         | 1.2.10      | 2.0.8       |
| NUnit                           | 2.6.3       | 3.11.0      |
| Quartz                          | 2.2.4       | 3.0.7       |
| RabbitMQ.Client                 | 3.5.7       | 5.1.0       |

#### Upgrades specific for .Net Framework 4.7

| Package                     | Old Version | New Version |
| --------------------------- | ----------- | ----------- |
| FluentNHibernate            | 1.4.0       | 2.1.2       |
| NHibernate                  | 3.3.5.4000  | 5.1.2       |
| NHibernate.Caches.SysCache  | 3.3.3.4000  | 5.4.0       |
