---
title: v0
---

## v0.98.5

### Features

- For unhandled exceptions, request header and body can now be included in log
  message. It can be specified using `UnhandledExceptionMessage` method of
  `LoggingFeature` in Global.asax.
- Context session can be changed using the `IModuleContext.OverrideSession`
  implementation at runtime.

### Bugfixes

- Fixed a bug with min value and max value on money data type for MS SQL
  Server. Money data type now correctly handles them.
- Incorrect naming of data contract namespace in the WSDL which is generated by
  WCF data service, fixed. The namespace of data contract can now be specified
  using  `WebServiceConfiguration` in Global.asax.

### Improvements

- Added CORS feature support for Mvc Service Client Application
- Changed the execute order of `Audit` and `Secure` configuration
  interceptions.
- Added `System.Web.Http` library in `Gazel.Configuration` nuget package.

## v0.98.4

### Features

- Added following optional parameters allow you to use linq extension methods
  in your queries. (see:
  [https://gazel.io/conventions#queries](https://gazel.io/conventions#queries))
  - `take`
  - `skip`
  - `orderBy`
  - `orderByDescending`
  - `any`

### Improvements

- Service - Add support for refresh an entity's data from database.
  (`IRepository<T>.Refresh(T entity)`)
- System - Added a new system type that truncates long text.
- Changed as protected accessibility of `BuildQuery` method in `Query<T>`

## v0.98.2

### Features

- NuGet package have been changed to provide support for .Net Framework 4, 4.5,
  4.6 and 4.7 versions.
- Service - Root namespace is now detected automatically.
  - The assembly prefix to which Global.asax belongs is detected as the root
    namespace.
  - The root namespace can be specified by configuring it from Global.asax.
- Documentation - The website of the Gazel has been published. (see:
  [http://gazel.io](http://gazel.io))
- Documentation - A draft version documentation has been published. (see:
  [http://gazel.io](http://gazel.io))
- Tools - An online tool for creating an empty project has been developed.
  (see: [http://gazel.io/setup#create-a-solution](http://gazel.io/setup#create-a-solution))
- Web - Dropdown component for Enums was created.
  - It can be used as multiple choice.
  - Enum's text values are passed to localization and loaded into dropdown.
  - The icon and color for each item of the dropdown can be specified.
- Web - The UI component of ContentValueType was created.

### Bugfixes

- Web - The last 2 hours, today and yesterday in the DateTimeRangePicker had
  incorrect date and time information, fixed.
- Web - If the form is posted to the Nullable MoneyRange component without any
  values entered, the service returned the default MoneyRange value instead of
  null, fixed.

### Improvements

- Nuget - The Nuget packages were arranged.
  - Gazel package is now a single package. Dependencies of Gazel comes within
    Gazel to simplify nuget packages in projects.
  - apigen package is renamed to Gazel.Client
  - Apigen.exe has been removed from the project references. It was added under
    the Content folder in the project.
  - When the Gazel.Client package is installed, the apigen.exe readme file is
    opened.
- Service - Exceptions within WithNewTransaction blocks were logged in ERROR
  level, changed to DEBUG.
- Web - The library was changed to mask Money UI component.
  - For more information on the QueryMask library (see:
    [https://igorescobar.github.io/jQuery-Mask-Plugin](https://igorescobar.github.io/jQuery-Mask-Plugin))
- Service - CreateDate and ModifyDate columns are now mapped to Timestamp.
- Web - Allows to select currency in Money
  - If the default value is present, the default value is the currency.
    Otherwise, the Auto UI is retrieved from the configuration.
  - It can be gotton from Global.asax.
  - If the object has a property of type CurrencyCode, the currency value of
    the property is taken.
- Service - ResultCode information is added to fail and success logs.
- Web - Added 8-digit card number validation to CardNumber's UI component.
- Service - More options in database connection;
  - Max pool size management for SqlServer connections
  - Oracle, PostgreSQL and MySql support
- Web - Date constraint feature added to DatePicker UI component
